Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to focus on runtime messages for feedback.
So what are we creating our game was very easy when we're using a terminal based game like in the last
section with the ball game terminal we could just type in things and test them and get them printed
out.
Now similar to how we were using print line in the previous section we can use something with the unreal
output log.
And that's something is the use log.
We then have a couple of parameters that are passed into this.
We've got the category in which we can place things now.
You can have custom categories we're not going to cover that in this lecture.
Now the verbosity.
This simply says where things are going to go so we can log just in the outputs log we can output in
it to a text file and things like that as well.
In this particular case we'll be using one of three keywords that we can put in here and then we've
got the text macro which you're all familiar with by now.
And then the message we want to display now what we're going to use is the following.
So we're going to give you a log.
Then we're gonna do log temp.
So it's just going to come up in the output log.
It's just a temporary log.
In this particular case as we're going through and testing warning what does that mean.
Well it's actually going to color in our message that we give yellow and we'll see that in more detail
in a moment.
And finally the message is hello once again within that text macro.
So what other words could we use where we could use error if we wanted it to come up red warning is
yellow and just the display is green.
So this type of TV is code and have a look okay.
So now wherever MVS code.
The first thing that we can do is decide where we're going to go ahead and put this logging code.
Now we could put it in a couple of places we could outputs it here so that when the object gets constructed
it outputs to the log.
But we can also do here which is when we go ahead and press play let's go ahead and pop it here instead.
So we need you a log comes up straightaway brilliant and then we're going to open our brackets.
The first thing is our category name.
Here we go this is what we're talking about before log temp.
Brilliant.
And then finally here we can have a yellow warning and then we use our text macro as we've done before.
Open those brackets and say this is a warning exclamation mark.
And then finally the semicolon at the end.
Now I'm going to save that and dive over to 0.
We've missed something here.
We've missed a comma.
Make sure you've got all three parameters in that X and save our file and go over into one row.
Okay brilliant let's go ahead and press compile and we won't see the log straightaway.
So whilst that's compiling let's go up to the window menu and go down to developer tools and there are
a couple of different logs here we want the output log compiles complete brilliant so nothing will be
in here yet and this is everything that's going on in unreal at the moment.
So what we can do here is go up to the top and press play and then here we have a look down in the log
towards the bottom.
Yes here we go.
This is a warning this is a warning.
Why is that coming up twice.
Well if we just stop and come out and then we'll have a look at some of the things that were going on
there as well.
We've got our world position component on both these two objects.
So the moment that the game is being played both of these world position components are outputting that
warning.
Now a couple of things here I want to clear up with yourselves.
When we go ahead and press play we end up with this message at the top here the lighting needs to be
rebuilt.
That's nothing to panic about in Unreal.
The lighting is static.
That's how it looks so pretty.
And so what we need to do is build the lighting occasionally.
This is not going to affect the running of our game but it will affect the looks of our game.
So we don't want it running all the time because it's quite an intensive process.
The other thing I want to sort out is the fact that we're facing the wrong way when we start our game
sets come out of here press stop.
Now how you can build and we'll be using this later on when we talk about some BSP is when we map out
our level but we just press build here.
It'll do everything that we need to do.
We've got a warning here which is now gone.
Perfect.
And now when we press play that is no longer an issue.
OK so the final thing here is making sure that we're facing the right way when we started the game that's
going to be very straightforward to do.
So we've got our player start position just here.
I'm going to pull that forward using the rotation key which was a I'm just gonna rotate that all the
way round 180.
And then when we start our game we'll be facing the right way.
So now it's time for your quick challenge.
Okay see your challenge is to create a log message that is red and gray as well so you're gonna have
two additional log messages.
And so in total you'll end up with three in total.
Per component that you've got in your scene positivity now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome
back.
Let's go ahead now and create our red and grey warning messages.
Okay.
So I would normally say let's not copy and paste.
So let's not copy and paste.
So we've got a warning there.
We can also have our you log log temp and this time it's going to be an error.
This one is going to come out red.
Now what are we going to say in this one.
Well let's be explicit about what it is.
It will probably be this is all let's just put era actually nice and short because that is what you'd
want.
I'm gonna place the next one up here so there is ascending order of importance let's say.
So this is gonna be a log temp and this time it's just gonna be display.
Now noticed that they've all got capitals at the beginning this is important if you have a lower case
in there these wouldn't work.
I've been caught out with that before when trying to debug something that's been going on so just a
log nothing to see will hopefully would never outputs just a log for the sake of doing it.
But this is for practice.
Okay so everything's okay there apart from the semicolon on the end.
Excellent.
So we should end up with a great message.
A yellow message and a red message.
And then that's again because we have two actors with this component on them in our scene.
So let's go ahead and compile let's press play.
Okay and let's have a look at the output log itself.
Here we go.
Just the log enough to see this as a warning error.
Perfect that's exactly what I wanted to see.
Now that was pretty straightforward we used to doing that sort of thing when we were doing the bull
Cal game.
Excellent.
So one last thing I want to let you know about is in the lecture resources I've included a link to the
documentation with all of the rest of things that you could implement using the logging system.
Let's take a look at that and I'll see you all in the next lecture.